the Israeli Army says it has killed the
commander of hamas's military wing it
says Muhammad da was killed in an attack
on a building in Kan yunas Southern Gaza
three weeks ago Hamas is yet to confirm
the reports all right let's get you more
on these breaking developments nor joins
us now from rala in the occupied West
Bank uh nor tell us about the
significance of the timing of this
announcement by Israeli authorities
it's very significant Leila because we
have to kind of take a step back and see
what has been happening over the past 2
24 hours Israel striking in the heart of
Beirut the heart of tahan uh there were
strikes also or explosions reported in
Syria in Iraq and now the confirmation
that the top military commander in
hamas's military Wing has been
assassinated in kanun so uh Israel
really trying to to recover its
deterrence which is a a deeply ingrained
uh uh perspective in the security
establishment in Israel that Israel must
always uh maintain the ability to strike
in the heart uh of where its adversaries
are to be able to reach whoever it wants
whenever it wants and right now what uh
with this confirmation if Hamas
corroborates it what we have is Israel
eliminating the top of the Hamas um uh
political Wing the top of the Hamas
military wing and a lot of the senior
commanders of the uh Hamas military
wings so the circle closing and
Netanyahu trying to recover His Image as
a leader of Israel that can protect it
so a lot going on really uh and we'll
have to see how Hamas reacts and if it
confirms that big hit right um now okay
nor day I'm told we're going to have to
leave it there thank you so very much
for for now and um like to take you now
to to Hy Mahmud who is standing by uh
honey um have you heard of the news has
it been confirmed where you
are well it hasn't been confirmed yet by
Hamas or the military Wing whether uh
the commander of the military uh wing of
Hamas has been eliminated as the Israeli
military uh confirm in their statement
but here on the ground we haven't heard
any official statement in fact since the
attack took place and that was the
Israeli narrative and it kept pushing uh
for that kind of narrative up till this
moment we don't have any confirmation or
any comments from any of the uh
political uh level in Hamas or any of
the military uh level or any kind of
statements not even online on website uh
statement but this is the kind of of
things that we have heard in the past a
statement after a statement by the
Israeli military confirming their own
actions that are hardly to verify uh on
the ground just one example to point out
how difficult is to verify any of these
statements on the ground Israeli
military at some point issued a
statement talking about the elimination
of some
800 uh militants as they described them
here across the Gaza Strip but without
giving any solid evidence of who were
these militants they were targeted where
they were coming from what they were
names and there were multiple times the
pictures of supposedly targeted uh uh
targets that they were eliminated by the
isra military and a few hours later or
two days later discovered that many of
them have already been dead years ago or
some of them are actually out of the
Gaza Strip or uh the majority of them
are just civilians who have no
connections whatsoever with any of the
Israeli claims it's hard to uh to pin uh
point exactly what happened the images
and the videos released by the Israeli
military they're showing the following
it's an aerial an aerial footage of a
drone of the the one ton bomb that is a
the uh the bunker Buster bomb that fell
on al- maasi and caused this huge
explosion uh at the right in the middle
of a side of a tent camp H but so far
what we know that the the the T killed
it close to 85 people majority of them
that displac Palestinians from across
the Gaza Strip that's what's available
on the ground other than this it's hard
to verify hard to verify H Mahmud thank
you so very much for your reporting
greatly appreciate it all right and here
with me on the set is AD Abdul gafar
director of the foreign policy and
security program at the midle East
Council on global uh Affairs so good to
have you back with us um so if this is
confirmed that Muhammad Dave reportedly
killed in an attack uh on a building in
Kan Yunis about three weeks ago what
could that potentially mean for the
trajectory of this war well we have to
look at this within the context of
domestic Israeli politics prime minister
nanaho remains very unpopular and some
recent opinion polls show that 70% of
Israelis uh want him out these most
recent uh assassinations uh of Hamas
political wing and Hamas military Wing
puts him in better standing uh
domestically to pursue a ceasefire in
addition to that the keset now is on
summer uh recess so his Coalition is
safe for the next few months so I think
he would be making the calculation that
now he can potentially go towards the
ceasefire highlighting Israel is coming
at it from a position of strength it's
quite remarkable in terms of I mean just
a quick succession of all these
developments it's it's notable that is
indeed notable so that might be what
Netanyahu is a angling for to move
towards the the ceasefire from position
of strength but the wild card here is
the Iranian response to the
assassination of uh the hisbah commander
and the assassination of Hana on Iranian
soil will Iran retaliate forcefully to
expand this uh conflict or not that is
the key question now that we have that
we'll know in the next couple of 48
hours next 48 hours now um if if this is
confirmed um it would mean or would it
mean that Israel has achieved the
objectives that it had set out at the
beginning of its campaign in Gaza uh
that is uh correct of course the full
eradication of Hamas is is not really
possible because ultimately Hamas is an
ideology but uh by eliminating the top
leaders uh and also uh some of the rank
and file commanders again Netanyahu can
go to his public and sell this as a huge
win and then go down the road of the
negotiated ceasefire but in the same
time as we discussed earlier there
remains multiple sticking points on this
ceasefire deal when it happens we still
do not know who's going to look after
the security situation and day after in
the long term we don't know who's going
to be in charge of the governance of
Gaza we don't know if Israel will return
the Philadelphia Corridor to Egypt and
finally we don't know when the refugees
will be allowed to return to Northern
Gaza so all of these smaller details
need to be negotiated before an actual
SE fire Happ all right now what does
this all mean for Hamas though I mean is
it is it seriously weakened now Hamas is
the definitely uh weaken with the
assassination of its leader but as I
mentioned to you Hamas is is more of an
ideology uh that will likely live on if
the conditions of occupation uh still
exist but of course it is very weakened
but in the same time they're not just
dealing with Hamas they're also dealing
with its backers such as Iran all right
so uh abdah gafar thank you so very much
I greatly appreciate you weighing in on
this breaking
development make sure to subscribe to
our channel to get the latest news from
Al jaaz